Good afternoon, we're here this afternoon with Mr. Brian Quinlan, who is one of the
longest attending gardeners at Stackpole Wall Garden. And we're interviewing him today,
which is the 2nd of February 2023, and this is part of the Citizen Curator Project, an
oral history project, because people that have been working here, and certainly very
few for as long as Brian, are able to tell us so much more about the gardens. So I'm
working this afternoon with Julian Rollins, my colleague here, who is the tutor at Stackpole,
so I'm going to hand over and then we're going to have a bit of a chat. Okay, Julian.
Thank you, yeah. Thanks for giving us your time, Brian, because it's a busy day, isn't it? When
were you born, Brian? When? When were you born, what year? 1939. Is that current now? Yeah,
so that's just as the war, the Second World War, was started. When the war was started, yeah. Where
were you living then as a child? Where did you live as a child? Outside Tempe, Comperson.
Comperson, near Tempe, so you were... But the farm was down in the valleys. We had to go through a gate and then walk down to the farm.
And your dad was the farmer? Yeah, my father was. Yeah. Was that Astridge, or what was the name of
that farm? Can you remember the name? No, a long time ago. No, no, gosh. So when you were small,
were you helping out around the farm then? Yeah. What did they used to have you doing? What? What did your dad used to ask you to do?
I knew he was on the tractor and horses ploughing with horses. Then I went on the tractor after that.
What age were you when you were driving the tractor? I don't know. Small? 9 or 10. That was quite something to have a tractor
then, because I remember my father telling me, you know, it was mainly horses, wasn't it? Quite a thing to have a tractor.
Yeah. Can you remember what tractor it was? The Fordson Major, small one, before they had the blue ones.
What colour would a Fordson be then? Blue. The big one, yeah. So you, from a very young age then, you were working outdoors,
doing outdoor stuff? I was walking around with my father when he was ploughing, and with the tractor.
Yeah. And you remember the name of any of the horses? We had two. Did you? Brown one with a white face.
And they used to use horses here at the garden, didn't they? Before we were all around. There's a photo, isn't there?
Yeah. So when did you, can you remember when you first came here then, Brian? First came to Stadpole?
I think when I went to the Anchorage first, I think. Any idea what year that was? No.
So you're, how old are you now? You're 83. Three. Gosh, yeah. 84 Monday week. Oh really? Oh. Did that go on there then?
Yeah. 84 Monday week. And so what did you do between sort of finishing at the farm? Were you working other places or?
I went to the Gulf Refinery then. Oh, right, right. And I grew up working in the canteen.
Ah, so they love you in the kitchen if they hear that here. Yeah.
So you think, would you have been around 50 when you started working here or older?
I'm not sure, a bit older probably. A bit older, yeah, yeah. About 20 or so years ago probably, I suppose.
That's when, yeah, things really got going here. Is there anyone else here now who was here when you first came?
I can't remember. No, I don't think so. No, no. No, so you really are the one that, you know what's what then, yes. Okay.
So you said to me a little earlier that when you first came here, the garden was in a bit of a state.
Overgrown, yeah. What was it like? What was growing in here? A lot of nettles and brambles and trees.
Trees? Yeah, small trees, big trees like that. Wow. From the gate, you couldn't open the gate, it was,
well you opened the gate but it was full of brambles and nettles so we had to clear it all down.
Wow, so it was like clearing a jungle. Yeah. So that, was that the first job then, just cutting your way in?
Yeah. How would, how did you do that? What sort of tools did you use, can you remember?
Saw, secateurs, clippers. No power tools, no strimmers back then? I can't remember, I don't think so.
And was there a big gang of you then or was it just three or four? A few of us.
Oh. And was Mr. Bateman here then or? Yes, George Bateman. George Bateman, ah right.
He was the head gardener then.
And did you see many members of the public in those days, were there many visitors?
Yeah, I think it was a few walking around. Right.
So once the place had been cleared, was the, were there the area that is now vegetable beds,
was that the first bit that was cleared? Yeah, we worked on them then, do them over.
And were there, was there a greenhouse? Was there a greenhouse?
Yeah, there was, but I wasn't near it then. Oh right, okay.
So you, do you remember that first sort of spring or whatever planting, was it, you know,
quite something to fight, make enough space to do your planting? Yeah.
What do you remember about that? Digging and, did you choose what to plant then? Yeah.
What did Mr. Bateman tell you? Was it, who was making the... Digging in the tunnels,
or the tomatoes.
So that was when you got the tunnels underway, was it? Yeah. Just out here or? Yeah. Yeah.
So you grew tomatoes from an early, early stage then? Yeah.
Oh right. And what else were you growing back then? Hmm? What else were you growing back then?
Can you remember? Tomatoes. Yeah. Onions, leeks, potatoes.
Hmm.
And was there, did you have that little tractor, was there a little tractor back there?
Yeah, we had a small, a small, a small tractor.
Was it the same as the one you'd had at home? No. No? Small, grey one.
But you felt sort of okay about the tractor, obviously. Yeah. Yeah.
And did you, how many times a week then did you come? Was it just once a week or?
I think it was when we was clearing the garden.
Hmm. And what was your general feeling? Did you, you know, want to come back?
Did you find it satisfying to work here? Yeah.
In what way then? Was it more like going back to your roots sort of thing? Yeah. Yeah.
Did it remind you of when you were a child on the farm?
No. No. The tractor and stuff, there wasn't? Yeah.
So with the, with the crops you were growing then, you were growing onions, potatoes, leeks,
tomatoes, where, where did all of that produce go to?
You know, they used to take some veg into the shop in Ivory West. Oh, right. Next to the one,
next to the, the pub, I think. What was the name of that? Spar. Oh, yeah. In, in Bridge Street in
Halford West or? No. In the town. Next to the King's Arms. Oh, right. There you are. Yeah.
There was a shop there and they used to buy veg, obviously. And I think you live in Halford West
now, don't you? Were you living there then? When I was here? No. No. I see. Because the charity
Pembrokeshire Mencap was originally started off in Halford West, so I guess that's probably the
link for selling the vegetables over there, isn't it? Yeah. Did you know Ian or, you know Ian that
comes down? From the committee. Yeah. Did you know him then? Was he here then? I can't remember.
I think he was. Probably did overlap, I should think. Yeah. Yeah. We can hear the blasting in
the background. That's the, the military, isn't it, down on Castle Martin? You get used to that
noise, don't you? Yeah. On the ranges. It's part of life here, isn't it? Listening to the,
the guns going off. So, so you were, you would have been coming once a week then?
Yeah, I think so. How did you get here? On the van. On a van, yeah. Like a minivus. Yeah. Yeah.
With other people who were coming to work. Yeah. Who would be doing the driving then back then?
George, the basement, I think. George would come and pick you up. What sort of time of day?
Half past nine in the mornings. And then you'd be here for a whole day, would you? Yeah.
Putting the day's work. You bring your dinner with you then, did you? Yeah. Yeah, you bring your lunch, yeah.
Yeah. Were there women in those days? Any women on the bus? I think so. Yeah, like today, a little bit
of a mix. I've just seen Jane there in the, in the greenhouse today. Yeah. Yeah. Did you take vegetables
home after you'd grown them? Did you have your own plots in those days or was it more? No. No,
it was more general. Yeah. I see. I was going to, you'd mentioned lunch, hadn't you? So when you
had, you bought a pack lunch in with you. Yeah. Where did you eat it in those days then when the
makes the tea? The corrugated iron shed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You'd have tables and chairs and
electric fire in there. Quite cosy. Yeah. You've seen a lot of changes, Brian. You know, a lot of
change over the years. Yeah. How does it feel? Is that good or bad?
Couldn't be bad.
You're a good advert for it. You've kept fit, haven't you? Yeah. You kept fit. Do you enjoy that,
you know, that physical work is good, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. So what is it you're working on today,
Brian? We're digging the sides out. We're going to put the Maipax on top, tuck it in to the trench
then and then put it back in. Right. So is that this? And it'll hold the Maipax down. This is the
stuff that the strawberries will go underneath? Yeah. Yeah. We make holes in the Maipax and plant
through like the tomatoes. So you're establishing a new strawberry bed, isn't it? Yeah. And is that
good? Cos do strawberries, does it need to be sort of refreshed every? Yeah. Tell us a bit about that.
They grow better then. Do they? When they're replanted with a Maipax. Yeah. And Maipax is like
this sort of film, like it helps to stop the weeds, doesn't it? Yeah. And is it particular
strawberries? Do you grow El Santa or strawberries do you grow? Do you know? Any kind then.
They're quite early though, aren't they? Cos they come, I always seem to think they come quite early
here. Yeah. And have people always come to pick the strawberries? Do you remember people doing
pick your own in the past? Yeah. I think they grow better when they're in the Maipax.
Do they? Why is that? Cos the birds gets at them when they're loose and some goes bad.
So we get Jays coming in and stealing them don't we? Yeah. Little devils. Had you garden before
coming here? Had you gardened at home at all or in the past? No, only when I was on the farm.
Right. I didn't roach. Used to drive a tractor then. Were you working there then? Yeah, living in.
Right. And they always grew some spuds did they? Yeah. In the field then? Yeah. And hay and
straw. All right. Did you enjoy working there? Yeah. Well there. Yeah, it was all right. Yeah,
it was all right. So you came here with a lot of experience. You knew what was what sort of thing
in terms of the tractors and gardening and what have you. Yeah. Do you think that coming here and
the work you're doing keeps you fit? Yeah.
Do you ever, if you ever see the doctor, does he tell you you're a fit? You're doing well? Yeah,
I saw two not long ago. Lady doctor, she was going to test my legs but she said there's no need
because I was fit. Oh well done. She'll check my toes and said they're fit. That's in case you get
diabetes isn't it? Yeah. She said you get a small stand and put your feet up
rather than down because it helps the veins in when your feet is up.
But she thought you were pretty good. Well it's bound to be. You're moving a lot during the day
and I would imagine that helps then. Yeah. What's your favourite job here then, Brian?
Here? Yeah. No, anything.
Raking, digging, planting.
And is this a good time of year now? Yeah. I always think of you planting spuds, well not yet, but
when will that be? A month's time? It's just the beginning of February now, is it March?
Depends on the weather, does it? Yeah, March, April, May.
Do you do first earlies? Yeah, we have done.
They're quite popular with people aren't they? Do people quite like
to come and buy the first new potatoes? Yeah.
Yeah. You must have grown many pounds of spuds over the years. Yeah.
What would you say your favourite time of year was then?
What would you say your favourite time of the year here is then?
Planting. Is it? In the spring? May, April or May, March.
It's a nice pace of life. Yeah. You can't force nature. No.
Shall we pause it there? Yeah. Pan? Just have a breather. Get the red light on again.
So continuing then Brian, you've got your own, everybody has their own veg plot.
Vegetable plot, yeah. What are you going to grow on yours this year then?
Probably potatoes.
Anything else?
Beetroot plot.
So you get some produce from that. Yeah. What do you usually do with what you grow then?
Where does it go to? It takes it home then.
And do you cook it yourself? Stuff. You've got?
And then we eat it then. Support workers will cook it for you. Yeah.
Do you share it with the people that you're living with then? Yeah.
That's good. What do they think? Do they say good things about it? Nice.
Do you think a potato that you grow yourself takes better than one you buy in a shop?
Yeah, sometimes.
Do you find it varies from year to year depending on the weather? Yeah.
Have you ever had blight in spots down here? Yeah, but I don't know.
That's a helper thing, isn't it? Yeah. It flattens them, doesn't it? Yeah.
And what's the worst pests you get down here then? Do you get a lot of slugs or snails or what's the worst?
Sometimes. Yeah.
So what was last year like? Because it was a very hot summer, wasn't it, last year? Yeah.
Did the produce, did you manage to grow potatoes last year? Yeah, they looked all right.
Any particular brand? Maris Piper or? Yeah.
Rocket? Yeah. A few of the different types, does it? Yeah.
Good. And would you wish you still were going around with a horse?
Do you wish you were still ploughing with a horse? No. No. They walked a long way in those days. Yeah.
So what's happening at the moment then out there?
Anything changing at the moment? Pardon? Is there anything changing at the moment? There
seem to be new beds appearing in different places. Yeah. What's going on?
Grapevine. Oh, yeah. Getting ready for the grapevines. What do you think of that?
Should be good. It's different, isn't it? Interesting, isn't it? Yeah.
Yeah. It'd be good the day we can all sit down and enjoy a glass of wall garden wine, wouldn't it?
That'd be all right. Yeah. That'd be the day. Yeah. Yeah.
Well, you're pretty keen to get back to your strawberry bed, I understand.
Well, it's sunny. Yeah. So shall we stop it there and then we'll maybe
come back to you in the future with a few definite questions? Yeah. Yeah. Maybe when
some of the things that you're just planting now, we could talk to you about them. Yeah. Well,
you know, when you start planting it later in the summer and ask you a bit about those.
Thank you, Brian. Thank you, Brian.